---
published: true
date: '2023-10-03 08:22 +0300'
title: Cisco 8000 - Platform Security
author: Ammar Khan
excerpt: to add here
tags:
  - iosxr
  - cisco
  - '8000'
  - Security
position: hidden
---
{% include toc icon="table" title="Cisco 8000 - Platform Security" %}

# to be added

Networking is evolving at a formidable pace, it is fundamentally transforming every networking segment. The main driver behind this change is the rising tide of data generated by ever increasing number of users, devices and applications. To address network growth at these unprecedented levels operators around the world are considering various architectural options with emphasis on scale, latency, resiliency, automation and security. As they expand their networks and have tighter control over the network resources to better serve their customers security has taken center stage. Security is important because a network is an attack surface for cyberattacks. As networks continue to expand in response to changing networking landscape, they are increasingly vulnerable to cyberattacks which are a major threat for the operators. Securing underlying infrastructure is no longer merely desired by operators, it is a key requirement for a secure network.

This blog outlines the platform security features that are built into Cisco 8000 platform. It highlights how security is addressed throughout the entire life cycle of the product. Furthermore, it describes how security is built into the platform, what type of security features are introduced and how do they mitigate security risks.

For years Cisco has been warning of increased cybercriminal activity at the global level. In its 2018 Annual Cybersecurity Report Cisco states that cyberattacks are more sophisticated in nature exerting bigger business and financial impact. Technologies used for normal business operations such as the internet and the cloud are being increasingly targeted by cybercriminals. Their most significant target is exploitation of gaps created by network expansion. Furthermore, the report points out that the supply chain attacks are on the rise as well with increasing complexity. Their impact can be quite massive and remain undetected for a long period of time. To curb supply chain attacks, it is recommended to work with vendors who issue Common Vulnerabilities and Exposures (CVE) reports, have a comprehensive supply/value chain security program to protect their systems from compromise, and are capable of quickly addressing any system level vulnerabilities[2].

There are many notable recent incidences of cyber breaches resulting in enormous damages. Hackers exploited software vulnerabilities and were able to steal millions of dollars, permanently erase computer data and maliciously hack into corporate networks to steal valuable consumer information [7]. Cybercriminals have exploited supply chain vulnerabilities to replace hardware or software. Attackers are reported to have successfully attacked the supply chains of different companies altering hardware during the manufacturing process gaining access to valuable data [10, 11]. These articles underscore a key point that supply chain attacks are more likely and more frequently to happen given the global nature of product development.
According to Cisco’s Annual Cybersecurity Report, economic losses as a result of cyberattacks are real. Attacks take months or years to detect and resolve. Cisco’s 2018 Security Capabilities Benchmark study revealed that more than half (53 %) of all attacks resulted in financial damages
of more than US$500,000. Furthermore, the extent of damages is far beyond financial; businesses have lost their revenue, customers, partners, ability to capture new opportunities, incurred avoidable operational cost, etc. [2].
